Added Proposal (#21)
compusciencing/compusciencing.github.io: _posts/2019-07-01-technical-analysis.md

---
layout: post
title: "Technical Analysis with Neural Networks"

> categories: ["technical analysis", "neural network", "tensor flow"]

Reviewer: Please look at the categories from other posts.

> tags: ["stocks", "neural network", "ML"]

Reviewer: Please look at the tags from other posts.

author: "Alex Wilson"
include_mathjax: false
---

> # Technical Analysis with Neural Networks

Reviewer: Put a blank line before this line.

> With the help of Dr. Anthony Clark, I plan to implement a neural network to "predict" the stock price  of Google (GOOG) using historical stock information from January 1st, 2014 - January 1st, 2019. The data will be collected using the [Yahoo Finance API]( https://rapidapi.com/apidojo/api/yahoo-finance1). I plan to write the program using [Python 3.6](https://docs.python.org/3/whatsnew/3.6.html) and will use [Keras]( https://keras.io/) as a high level framework using [TensorFlow 1.1]("https://www.tensorflow.org/") as the low level library. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the help of Dr. Anthony Clark, I plan to implement a neural network to "predict" the stock price  of Google (GOOG) using historical stock information from January 1st, 2014 - January 1st, 2019. I will collect the data using the [Yahoo Finance API]( https://rapidapi.com/apidojo/api/yahoo-finance1). I plan to write the program using [Python 3.6](https://docs.python.org/3/whatsnew/3.6.html) and will use [Keras]( https://keras.io/) as a high-level framework using [TensorFlow 1.1]("https://www.tensorflow.org/") as the low level library. 
```

Accurately predicting stock prices is something that is considered impossible to do. 

> The [Efficient Market Hypothesis]( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Efficient-market_hypothesis), developed by Eugene Fama and Benoit Mandelbrot, states that all stocks are traded at an efficient or real price because all of the people competing against one another. Any kind of exclusive information that one party possess is immediately accounted for by the price. This theory has yet to be disproven.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Efficient Market Hypothesis]( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Efficient-market_hypothesis), developed by Eugene Fama and Benoit Mandelbrot, states that all stocks are traded at an efficient or real price because all the people competing against one another. Any kind of exclusive information that one party possess is immediately accounted for by the price. This theory has yet to be disproven.
```

> [High Frequency Trading]( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High-frequency_trading) enables machines to directly impact the market by selling, buying, and cancelling massive orders many times a second. Many believe this is a direct violation of at least some of the assumptions in the Efficient Market Hypothesis. Is it possible, using enough stock data, that it would be possible to model these trades and the market in general? Very little public information is available on this topic. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[High Frequency Trading]( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High-frequency_trading) enables machines to directly impact the market by selling, buying, and cancelling massive orders many times a second. Many believe this directly violates at least some assumptions in the Efficient Market Hypothesis. Is it possible, using enough stock data, that it would be possible to model these trades and the market? Very little public information is available on this topic. 
```

> This implementation will be a conventional neural network which means the topology of the network will not change. The topology will be defined from manual feature extraction based on the training data set. The data that the neural network will learn from will include previous closing price, previous opening, current opening price, volume, market cap, and running average stock price. Ideally the closing price for the current day will be the output, but even predicting the direction from the opening price is extremely useful because it could be used to predict a profit or loss. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This implementation will be a conventional neural network which means the topology of the network will not change. I will define the topology from manual feature extraction based on the training data set. The data that the neural network will learn from will include previous closing price, previous opening, current opening price, volume, market cap, and running average stock price. Ideally the closing price for the current day will be the output, but even predicting the direction from the opening price is useful because I could use it to predict a profit or loss. 
```
